This is the teaching of the Dzogchen Dzogchen teachers, as you all know Dzogchen teaching.
As we went yesterday, there will be relief about this, and we will continue to talk about this,
about this.
And Dzogchen is the highest teaching of the Buddha Shaptamuni ever given, or the Buddha Samyata
Buddha ever given teaching.
And Dzogchen is always the great Master in teaching.
There is nothing higher, deeper, profound, and simple, easy, ordinary teaching than the Dzogchen.
There is nothing else, really, there is nothing else, because it's attached to the goal of the true
beings, true nature.
There is what else, what else besides that?
The goal of our treasure, our beauty, our nature, how to reveal that beauty, that nature.
Dzogchen is such a direct symbol, as I said, simple, ordinary, and this is simple nature.
So, Dzogchen is there, can be, I mean, it can be, is three Dzogches.
Garand Dzogchen, all basic Dzogches, part Dzogchen, resolve Dzogches.
That is all three as Dzogches. It's not something three different departments that we are.
That is how we are discovering.
Of course, the basic Dzogche means that Dzogchen is our inherited nature.
Right now, it is.
We have that nature, but it didn't, even though we had that, it's not, it's helping us too much.
Still, because we're still in samsara, samsara.
Therefore, we have to activate these qualities, reveal that nature.
That is known as part Dzogche, in the Buddha's teaching, part B-A-T-H, I think, part Dzogchen.
You are really pursuing that.
Then the result Dzogche is nothing, it's strange coming from new things.
You discover, or we discover what we need help, what we have.
We discover now without any blurring, blur and obscurations and mixed up.
We discover exactly as it is.
That is the final result. That's the fourth result.
Reality level is Dzogche. Dzogche.
I mentioned yesterday the meaning of, the world meaning of Dzogche. Sometimes it happens sometimes,
but Dzogche means great completions.
Everything is completed within Dzogche.
There's nothing else left beside Dzogche.
Dzogche.
And so this time, what is Dzogche here?
Here, in the teaching, he said here, what a great master.
He said pointing out the nature of Dzogche, or pointing out of Dzogche.
This Dzogche is pointing out of our basic goodness, basic nature.
This pointing out is also not pointing to the past, or it's pointing out to the past.
It's also not pointing to the future. Nor is it pointing out to somewhere else pointing out the
fingers.
Pointing out right now to each of us is now Dzogche.
It's not a past Dzogche. It's not a future Dzogche.
There is also some kind of offices in the program called Dr. Now.
M-D-Now. Yeah, M-D-Now. Dzogche Now.
Dzogche Now. Right now, that's his only point.
It's now-ness. It's now. Right now, we have that.
This nature is equal to all the living beings.
There's no difference at all, as I said.
How this basic Dzogche Now is, how it is.
That is the greatest teacher, Bodhachaktamuni said,
to allow the teaching from the Mahayana all the way to the Dzogche teaching.
It's pure. It's pure. It's brilliant.
It is clear luminosity. It is indestructible.
It is uncompounded.
This is the ordinary inherited nature.
This inordinate inherited nature is your inherited nature.
That is my inherited nature.
When the Buddha says that, he's not talking to someone.
He's pointing out to the object, pointing it to us.
We all have this.
So he's holding to the Dzogche which pointing out that.
That is. That is what we're going to discover.
That, when we're discovering, where we're discovering that,
when we're relaxing, that nature state is known as meditation.
Meditation is nothing that we're doing. It is strange than that.
Relax on that beautiful nature state.
That beautiful, simple, basic nature state.
Relax as it is.
When he said relaxing, that means, person times,
even though we think we're relaxing, we're not relaxing.
No one is really relaxing.
Because they are completely saturated,
they are completely caught up with the turbulence of the duality conceptus.
Day and night, dualities.
Duality is a word.
In the teaching, he said this is only, do you know what he said?
And we can't keep our nature.
No one goes in the teaching.
It's hope and fear.
Hope and fear.
H-O-E-P.
H-O-P-E.
And an F-E-A-R phrase.
How many phrase?
It's clashing.
Clashing back and forth.
We are in that.
And what that, when it becomes bigger, what's called?
Worrying. Stressful.
I'm stressful.
I'm tired. I'm bored.
I'm this and that.
Duality really is a fundamental activity of the dualities.
Dualities.
And then ego-cling is duality.
Then it's all that.
So we're not relaxing.
Not really, even though we go vacation land and resort area
and hiking, biking, whatever that, it just is temporary.
Temporary things, temporary kind of cover-up things.
So really rest is resting on this true nature.
I put stroke.
That is rest.
When you're resting, that is known as meditation name as meditation.
Meditation means there's nothing else abiding that nature.
So that is the one phrase.
How are we going to abide that?
Relax.
Come peacefully, nothing effort.
I'm just talking more and later come this.
Relax.
Then you basically open up.
It's not something that I'm talking new things you've never heard
and you never do.
All of you, pain oscillate.
Long time practitioners.
And there's a teaching for many great masters, one after another.
So then in a way, you are intellectually dharma yappies.
Intellectually quite dharma yappies, really.
True.
But that yappie have now absorbed the heart.
Observing.
Bring out that god.
That is relaxing.
Relaxing.
That's what we need to do.
So that is this thing.
This is the title, and again reading the Buddha always says,
title tells the entire meaning of the teaching.